Welcome to Machine Learning Model Lifecycle.
After watching this video, you will be able
to:
List the processes within the lifecycle of
a Machine Learning product.
Hello!
My name is Isioma.
I work as a Machine Learning Engineer at a
leading company.
We sell machine learning solutions that enhance
the user experience for people shopping for
beauty products.
Today, I will walk you through a Machine Learning
project from start to finish.
Let’s begin by looking at the processes
in the Lifecycle of a Machine Learning Model.
First, define the problem or state the situation.
Next, move to data collection,
then to data preparation,
then to model development and evaluation,
and finally
to model deployment.
In reality, the model lifecycle is iterative,
which means that we tend to go back and forth
between these processes.
For example, if you find some problems with
your models that are deployed in production,
you may need to go back to data collection,
or even the problem definition step, and then
re-iterate the subsequent processes.
Data collection and preparation is called
the Extract, Transform, and Load, or ETL process.
The ETL process involves collecting data from
various sources,
then cleaning, transforming, and storing it
into a new single place.
The data is then accessible to the machine
learning engineer, allowing them to perform
tasks like building a machine learning model.
In this video, you learned that:
The processes involved in a Machine Learning
Model Lifecycle are Problem Definition, Data
Collection, Data Preparation, Model Development
and Evaluation, and Model Deployment.